.\" manual page for the Debian GNU/Linux system originally written by
.\" sam@robots.org.uk Sam Morris
.\" define fallback URL and MTO macros 
.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.\" the www.tmac package will provide better macros which will override those
.\" above if it is present
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH alephbet 6 2024-06-25 source.bungie.org Games
.SH NAME
alephbet \- open source continuation of the Marathon 2 game engine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B alephbet
[
.I options
]
[
.I directory
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Aleph Bet is an open source continuation of the Marathon 2 game engine. It can
play Marathon, Marathon 2, and Marathon Infinity, as well as third-party
scenarios for Marathon 2, Marathon Infinity, and Aleph One. It supports
Windows, macOS, and most modern UNIX-compatible operating systems (such as
Linux).
.P
Aleph Bet is a direct descendent of Aleph One and Aleph Modular, and is
expected to incorporate future changes to Aleph One.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options. (Available options change more frequently than this man page.)
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.
.TP
.I directory
Directory containing the data files of a scenario (map file, scripts, etc.)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ALEPHBET_DATA
Directories that are searched for data files.
This is a colon-separated list.
Entries
.I later
in the list have precedence over entries earlier in the list.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.alephbet
Aleph Bet personalization directory.
alephbet stores preferences, game recordings, saved games, and screen
shots there.
If
.B ALEPHBET_DATA
is not set, alephbet searches this directory for data files after searching the
directory given as its argument.
.SH BUGS
If
.B ALEPHBET_DATA
is set, the
.I directory
argument is ignored.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The latest news regarding engine and scenario development can be found at
.URL "http://aleph-bet-marathon.github.io/" "the project web site" "."
